
Timings (Monday - Friday)
Std I to Std V :	8:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
Std VI to Std X :	8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Std XI Sc & XII Sc :	8:30 a.m. to 12:50 p.m.
Std XI Com & XII Com :	8:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.

Timings (Saturday)
Std I to Std V :	8:30 a.m. to 12:10 p.m.
Std VI to Std XII :	8:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.

Parent Teacher Meeting
Std I to Std III :	3rd Saturday of the month
Std IV & Std V :	1st Saturday of the month
Std VI to Std VIII :	1st Saturday of the month
Std IX to Std XII :	3rd Saturday of the month

Nath Valley is a full day school. Students are kept productively busy through the day, rather than watching video films, or idling their afternoon’s away and developing bad habits.

The day begins with a morning assembly. A value-based morning assembly emphasizes the School’s secular approach and influences students to understand and enjoy India’s rich heritage and culture. It reinforces ethics, etiquette, values and strengthens moral character. 
In the secondary school, the students have 9 academic periods of 40 minutes each, per day. 
In between, the staff and students have lunch together which strengthens teacher student ties and also helps in developing good eating habits.
Lunch and evening refreshments are provided in the School on payment. All students are expected to eat together in the mess. The charges are determined in consultation with the contractor and kept at the minimum possible.

ACADEMICS

Self Study:
Students have a daily supervised self-study period, during which they complete their ‘Homework” in order to reinforce the day’s lessons. Students may however study at home for a test on the day before it is scheduled. Senior students may sometimes be required to spend time at home completing their assignments.

No Tuitions:
Students who are academically weak are given the remedial lessons by their teachers, at the School itself. No child needs those dreaded extra-tuitions at home. In some case, students who are found to be exceptionally slow learners may be advised to seek help from their parents to complete their work at home.

Reports Cards:
The Report Card is a very important part of the academic programme. It informs not only about the academic achievement of the students but also puts emphasis on the amount of effort being put in by him or her. It also indicates, through the informative comments written by the teachers, where the strengths and weakness of the students lie.

Promotion:
Promotion is based on the combined marks of the October and April Examinations. Students are promoted if they pass in English and get an aggregate of 40%. A ‘Fail’ in two or more subjects prevents the student from being promoted. If a student fails in one class twice, he/she can be removed from school.

Project Work:
To make learning creative, more meaningful and to make the students look beyond the text students are assigned projects in various subjects from time to time. This improves their comprehension, summarizing and presentation abilities

SPORTS

To create an all round developed student it is necessary to stress not only on mental but also on physical qualities.

N.V.S. strongly believes in the fact that a true sportsman possesses the quality of head and heart . To promote this, the sports facilities provided are the best in the town. There are two playgrounds for football and cricket. The school boasts of two basket ball courts and a tennis court. We also have a magnanimous sports complex which houses indoor basket ball and badminton courts, a squash court as well as table tennis equipments

A four hundred meter track round the playground provides training for athletes who compete for various track and field events . Shot put and discuss throw are also popular Indoor games where as badminton table tennis, carom and chess also find keen participation.

To round off, there are picturesque hills round our school where students often go on treks.

All students get an opportunity to participate in one sport or another and remain physically fit.
